Sean Lyon

Exercise 1 involved some simple modifications to ThreadTest to allow for multiple threads to be forked. Without any synchronization primitives, 
the shared variable in SimpleThread did not increment on every loop iteration. Once Semaphore was implemented, the shared variable was synchronized 
between threads and updated on every iteration of the loop. All threads see the same value when the loop is finished. I learned a little bit about 
Makefiles and how to conditionally compile different parts of your program. One issue I ran into was creating unique names for each forked thread due 
to confusion regarding string literals.

Exercise 2 was very similar to exercise 1. The Lock implementation is a simplified semaphore that at most one thread can access at once. The effect was 
the same as semaphores, the shared variable increments once per loop iteration and all threads see the same final value.

Exercise 3 was slightly more challenging due to misunderstanding the usage of conditions. I was still confused on its usage after coding the implementation. 
Once I began working on the Elevator exercise, conditions made much more sense. Some errors I ran into were forgetting to signal a condition before waiting. 
This led to infinite loops and early terminations.

Exercise 4 was by far the most challenging in this project. I spent a few hours brainstorming solutions before checking the starting code provided by the 
professor. The starter code provided many helpful hints to make progress. I initially implemented the elevator by prioritizing the highest floor. While 
this allowed me to test the loop to pick up and drop off passengers, it was not an efficient method of moving people quickly. After I had a crude implementation, 
I did some research on how real elevator algorithms decide where to stop next. I learned about SCAN and LOOK variations which prioritize stops based on current 
traveling direction. I modified my updateState method to work using the LOOK variant. I ran into many infinite loops, off-by-one errors, and forgotten passengers 
in this exercise.

Dario Munoz

Project 1 Report – Nachos Threads & Synchronization
Completed Work
Exercise 1 – Semaphores: Completed. Synchronized all threads correctly; final shared value consistent; verified with -rs random scheduling.
Exercise 2 – Locks:  Completed. Replaced semaphores with Lock; logic identical; verified ownership rules (isHeldByCurrentThread).
Exercise 3 – Condition Variables: Implemented Mesa-style Wait, Signal, and Broadcast; tested with multiple threads using shared locks.
Exercise 4 – Elevator:  Completed. Single elevator, 5-person capacity, correct up/down travel, and required status prints; tested with random workloads.

How to Build & Run

Kept DEFINES in the Makefiles so graders can enable any exercise with:

make 'DEFINES=-DTHREADS -DCHANGED -DHW1_ELEVATOR'

Binary is built at:

code/threads/nachos

Run example:

cd code/threads
./nachos -rs 7

Errors
	1.	Linker error – undefined reference to testnum
Added a single global int testnum = 1; in threadtest.cc and referenced it as extern in main.cc.
	2.	make clean errors
Ignored harmless “No match” messages; used make clean || gmake clean || true.
	3.	Unsynchronized vs. synchronized outputs
Verified correct race behavior, then used P()/V() to enforce atomic updates (final = 25 for 5×5 increments).
	4.	Build macros
Wrapped each exercise in #ifdef HW1_* so graders can switch tests easily.
	5.	Locks implementation
Built with a binary Semaphore; tracked owner to enforce correct Release().
	6.	Condition Variables
Followed Mesa semantics: Wait releases lock, sleeps, then reacquires; Signal and Broadcast wake waiting threads.
	7.	Elevator – missing RemoveFront()
Nachos List only has Remove(). Fixed all calls.
	8.	Multiple definitions (Elevator / ArrivingGoingFromTo)
Removed duplicate implementations from main.cc; kept only in elevator.cc.
	9.	./nachos: Command not found
Realized binary lives in code/threads; ran from that directory.
	10.	Ping() link error
Added ping.cc to Makefile.common, ran make depend, rebuilt.
	11.	Elevator behavior
Working simulation: 1 elevator, 5 capacity, wakes from idle when needed, delays ≈ 50 ticks/floor, proper entry/exit prints.

Liam Timana

1. Excercise 1 (Completed) - Tasks overall were understood and completed with little difficulty. The modified version of ThreadTest() prior to the inclusion of
Semaphores had each thread reading and writing the shared variable concurrently leading to all threads seeing the value 5.

2. Excercise 2 (Completed) - Implementation of locks were somewhat tricky but overall simple to understand.

3. Excercise 3 (Completed) - Implementation of conditions took a decent amount of time to understand and execute. Modification of locks was required in order for
proper synchronization.

4. Excercise 4 (Completed) - Implementation of elevator was difficult to understand at first but assistance of group members and project videos made the task much
easier.
